'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" SCCS: @(#) Utf.3 1.4 98/01/19 14:35:31
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Utf 3 "8.1" Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_UniChar, Tcl_UniCharToUtf, Tcl_UtfToUniChar, Tcl_UtfCharComplete, Tcl_NumUtfChars, Tcl_UtfFindFirst, Tcl_UtfFindLast, Tcl_UtfNext, Tcl_UtfPrev, Tcl_UniCharAtIndex, Tcl_UtfAtIndex, Tcl_UtfBackslash \- routines for manipulating UTF-8 strings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
typedef ... Tcl_UniChar;
.sp
int
\fBTcl_UniCharToUtf\fR(\fIch, buf\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_UtfToUniChar\fR(\fIsrc, chPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_UtfCharComplete\fR(\fIsrc, len\fR)
.sp
int 
\fBTcl_NumUtfChars\fR(\fIsrc, len\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBTcl_UtfFindFirst\fR(\fIsrc, ch\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBTcl_UtfFindLast\fR(\fIsrc, ch\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBTcl_UtfNext\fR(\fIsrc\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBTcl_UtfPrev\fR(\fIsrc, start\fR)
.sp
Tcl_UniChar
\fBTcl_UniCharAtIndex\fR(\fIsrc, index\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBTcl_UtfAtIndex\fR(\fIsrc, index\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_UtfBackslash\fR(\fIsrc, readPtr, dst\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "CONST char" *chPtr out
.AP char *buf out
Buffer in which the UTF-8 representation of the Tcl_UniChar is stored.  At most
TCL_UTF_MAX bytes are stored in the buffer.
.AP int ch in
The Tcl_UniChar to be converted or examined.
.AP Tcl_UniChar *chPtr out
Filled with the Tcl_UniChar represented by the head of the UTF-8 string.
.AP "CONST char" *src in
Pointer to a UTF-8 string.
.AP int len in
The length of the UTF-8 string in bytes (not UTF-8 characters).  If
negative, all bytes up to the first null byte are used.
.AP "CONST char" *start in
Pointer to the beginning of a UTF-8 string.
.AP int index in
The index of a character (not byte) in the UTF-8 string.
.AP int *readPtr out
If non-NULL, filled with the number of bytes in the backslash sequence, 
including the backslash character.
.AP char *dst out
Buffer in which the bytes represented by the backslash sequence are stored.
At most TCL_UTF_MAX bytes are stored in the buffer.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These routines convert between UTF-8 strings and Tcl_UniChars.  A
Tcl_UniChar is a Unicode character represented as an unsigned, fixed-size
quantity.  A UTF-8 character is a Unicode character represented as
a varying-length sequence of up to TCL_UTF_MAX bytes.  A multibyte UTF-8
sequence consists of a lead byte followed by some number of trail bytes.
.PP
\fBTCL_UTF_MAX\fR is the maximum number of bytes that it takes to
represent one Unicode character in the UTF-8 representation.
.PP
\fBTcl_UniCharToUtf\fR stores the Tcl_UniChar \fIch\fR as a UTF-8 string
in starting at \fIbuf\fR.  The return value is the number of bytes stored
in \fIbuf\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfToUniChar\fR reads one UTF-8 character starting at \fIsrc\fR
and stores it as a Tcl_UniChar in \fI*chPtr\fR.  The return value is the
number of bytes read from \fIsrc\fR..  The caller must ensure that the
source buffer is long enough such that this routine does not run off the
end and dereference non-existent or random memory; if the source buffer
is known to be null terminated, this will not happen.  If the input is
not in proper UTF-8 format, \fBTcl_UtfToUniChar\fR will store the first
byte of \fIsrc\fR in \fI*chPtr\fR as a Tcl_UniChar between 0x0000 and
0x00ff and return 1.  
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfCharComplete\fR returns 1 if the source UTF-8 string \fIsrc\fR
of length \fIlen\fR bytes is long enough to be decoded by
\fBTcl_UtfToUniChar\fR, or 0 otherwise.  This function does not guarantee
that the UTF-8 string is properly formed.  This routine is used by
procedures that are operating on a byte at a time and need to know if a
full Tcl_UniChar has been seen.
.PP
\fBTcl_NumUtfChars\fR corresponds to \fBstrlen\fR for UTF-8 strings.  It
returns the number of Tcl_UniChars that are represented by the UTF-8 string
\fIsrc\fR.  The length of the source string is \fIlen\fR bytes.  If the
length is negative, all bytes up to the first NULL byte are used.
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfFindFirst\fR corresponds to \fBstrchr\fR for UTF-8 strings.  It
returns a pointer to the first occurance of the Tcl_UniChar \fIch\fR
in the NULL-terminated UTF-8 string \fIsrc\fR.  The NULL terminator is
considered part of the UTF-8 string.  
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfFindLast\fR corresponds to \fBstrrchr\fR for UTF-8 strings.  It
returns a pointer to the last occurance of the Tcl_UniChar \fIch\fR
in the NULL terminated UTF-8 string \fIsrc\fR.  The NULL terminator is
considered part of the UTF-8 string.  
.PP
Given \fIsrc\fR, a pointer to some location in a UTF-8 string,
\fBTcl_UtfNext\fR returns a pointer to the next UTF-8 character in the
string.  The caller must not ask for the next character after the last
character in the string.
.PP
Given \fIsrc\fR, a pointer to some location in a UTF-8 string,
\fBTcl_UtfPrev\fR returns a pointer to the previous UTF-8 character in the
string.  This function will not back up to a position before \fIstart\fR,
the start of the UTF-8 string.  If \fIsrc\fR was already at \fIstart\fR, the
return value will be \fIstart\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_UniCharAtIndex\fR corresponds to a C string array dereference or the
Pascal Ord() function.  It returns the Tcl_UniChar represented at the
specified character (not byte) \fIindex\fR in the UTF-8 string
\fIsrc\fR.  The source string must contain at least \fIindex\fR
characters.
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfAtIndex\fR returns a pointer to the specified character (not
byte) \fIindex\fR in the UTF-8 string \fIsrc\fR.  The source string must
contain at least \fIindex\fR characters.  This is equivalent to calling 
\fBTcl_UtfNext\fR \fIindex\fR times.
.PP
\fBTcl_UtfBackslash\fR is a utility procedure used by several of the Tcl
commands.  It parses a backslash sequence and stores the properly formed
UTF-8 character represented by the backslash sequence in the output
buffer \fIdst\fR.  At most TCL_UTF_MAX bytes are stored in the buffer.
\fBTcl_UtfBackslash\fR modifies \fI*readPtr\fR to contain the number
of bytes in the backslash sequence, including the backslash character.
The return value is the number of bytes stored in the output buffer.
.PP
See the \fBTcl\fR manual entry for information on the valid backslash
sequences.  All of the sequences described in the Tcl manual entry are
supported by \fBTcl_UtfBackslash\fR.

.SH KEYWORDS
utf, unicode, backslash
