'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2015 Jan Nijtmans <jan.nijtmans@gmail.com>
'\" Copyright (c) 2015 Christian Werner <chw@ch-werner.de>
'\" Copyright (c) 2017 Sean Woods <yoda@etoyoc.com>
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\"
.TH Tclzipfs 3 8.7 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.so man.macros
.BS
.SH NAME
TclZipfs_AppHook, Tclzipfs_Mount, TclZipfs_MountBuffer, Tclzipfs_Unmount \- handle ZIP files as Tcl virtual filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
int
\fBTclZipfs_AppHook(\fIargcPtr, argvPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTclzipfs_Mount\fR(\fIinterp, mountpoint, zipname, password\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTclZipfs_MountBuffer\fR(\fIinterp, mountpoint, data, dataLen, copy\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTclzipfs_Unmount\fR(\fIinterp, mountpoint\fR)
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *mountpoint in
.AP "int" *argcPtr in
Pointer to a variable holding the number of command line arguments from
\fBmain\fR().
.AP "char" ***argvPtr in
Pointer to an array of strings containing the command line arguments to
\fBmain\fR().
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter in which the ZIP file system is mounted.  The interpreter's result is
modified to hold the result or error message from the script.
.AP "const char" *zipname in
Name of a ZIP file. Must not be NULL when either mounting or unmounting a ZIP.
.AP "const char" *mountpoint in
Name of a mount point, which must be a legal Tcl file or directory name. May
be NULL to query current mount points.
.AP "const char" *password in
An (optional) password. Use NULL if no password is wanted to read the file.
.AP "unsigned char" *data in
A data buffer to mount. The data buffer must hold the contents of a ZIP
archive, and must not be NULL.
.AP size_t dataLen in
The number of bytes in the supplied data buffer argument, \fIdata\fR.
.AP int copy in
If non-zero, the ZIP archive in the data buffer will be internally copied
before mounting, allowing the data buffer to be disposed once
\fBTclZipfs_MountBuffer\fR returns. If zero, the caller guarantees that the
buffer will be valid to read from for the duration of the mount.
.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBTclZipfs_AppHook\fR is a utility function to perform standard application
initialization procedures, taking into account available ZIP archives as
follows:
.IP [1]
If the current application has a mountable ZIP archive, that archive is
mounted under \fIZIPFS_VOLUME\fB/app\fR as a read-only Tcl virtual file
system. \fIZIPFS_VOLUME\fR is usually \fB//zipfs:\fR on all platforms, but
\fBzipfs:\fR may also be used on Windows (due to differences in the
platform's filename parsing).
.IP [2]
If a file named \fBmain.tcl\fR is located in the root directory of that file
system (i.e., at \fIZIPROOT\fB/app/main.tcl\fR after the ZIP archive is
mounted as described above) it is treated as the startup script for the
process.
.IP [3]
If the file \fIZIPROOT\fB/app/tcl_library/init.tcl\fR is present, the
\fBtcl_library\fR global variable in the initial Tcl interpreter is set to
\fIZIPROOT\fB/app/tcl_library\fR.
.IP [4]
If the directory \fBtcl_library\fR was not found in the main application
mount, the system will then search for it as either a VFS attached to the
application dynamic library, or as a zip archive named
\fBlibtcl_\fImajor\fB_\fIminor\fB_\fIpatchlevel\fB.zip\fR either in the
present working directory or in the standard Tcl install location. (For
example, the Tcl 8.7.2 release would be searched for in a file
\fBlibtcl_8_7_2.zip\fR.) That archive, if located, is also mounted read-only.
.PP
On Windows, \fBTclZipfs_AppHook\fR has a slightly different signature, since
it uses WCHAR in stead of char. As a result, it requires your application to
be compiled with the UNICODE preprocessor symbol defined (e.g., via the
\fB-DUNICODE\fR compiler flag).
.PP
The result of \fBTclZipfs_AppHook\fR is a Tcl result code (e.g., \fBTCL_OK\fR
when the function is successful). The function \fImay\fR modify the variables
pointed to by \fIargcPtr\fR and \fIargvPtr\fR to remove arguments; the
current implementation does not do so, but callers \fIshould not\fR assume
that this will be true in the future.
.PP
\fBTclzipfs_Mount\fR mounts the ZIP archive \fIzipname\fR on the mount point
given in \fImountpoint\fR using the optional ZIP password \fIpassword\fR.
Errors during that process are reported in the interpreter \fIinterp\fR.  If
\fImountpoint\fR is a NULL pointer, information on all currently mounted ZIP
file systems is written into \fIinterp\fR's result as a sequence of mount
points and ZIP file names.  The result of this call is a standard Tcl result
code.
.PP
\fBTclzipfs_MountBuffer\fR mounts the ZIP archive in the buffer pointed to by
\fIdata\fR on the mount point given in \fImountpoint\fR. The ZIP archive is
assumed to be not password protected.  Errors during that process are reported
in the interpreter \fIinterp\fR. The \fIcopy\fR argument determines whether
the buffer is internally copied before mounting or not. The result of this
call is a standard Tcl result code.
.PP
\fBTclzipfs_Unmount\fR undoes the effect of \fBTclzipfs_Mount\fR, i.e., it
unmounts the mounted ZIP file system that was mounted from \fIzipname\fR (at
\fImountpoint\fR). Errors are reported in the interpreter \fIinterp\fR.  The
result of this call is a standard Tcl result code.
.PP
\fBTclZipfs_AppHook\fR can not be used in stub-enabled extensions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
zipfs(n)
.SH KEYWORDS
compress, filesystem, zip
